README.md, before:


# ![](game/images/icon-32.png) Hacky Game

This is the start of a game involving some crazy technical jazz,
for the sake of magical minimalism.

The game will be a platformer,
with lots of interconnected rooms and various enemies,
taking some inspiration from [Kirby & the Amazing Mirror][].

(Some basics are implemented, like blocks, slopes, one-way platforms, and doors.
There are several rooms, but they're pretty boring,
and the art is very preliminary.)

The game supports LAN multiplayer,
and the client's world is simulated in between updates from the server,
a basic implementation of [client-side prediction][].

Single player is treated the same: the client hosts a server and communicates with it locally over TCP.
This might change.

When other servers are discovered,
a door is opened to another world.

Players can travel between worlds,
and you can even have two players in each other's worlds.
(But the player's client has to be online for their world to be available.)

You should be able to get a feel for the game in single-player,
with a substantial world to explore, but
I think multiplayer will be the real focus of the game
and I think it would be interesting to have parts of the world that you can only explore with a friend.

Oh, did I mention the worlds are gonna be procedurally generated?
That's probably kind of important.
It might have some areas that are the same in all worlds, like a tutorial level,
or perhaps just fairly similar and functionally identical.

Both players should gain from exploring either players world.
It should be like the worlds combined make up the space to explore,
and which one to do first shouldn't feel contentious.

There could be doors that require multiple keys, that you need to get from several people.
There could be keys that belong to random other worlds and you have to find the one player whose world contains the door.
There could be halves of items (including keys).

Keys could be 2D "pin arrays", where locks run a game-of-life simulation for a number of iterations.
This would work well for a 1BPP game, as alternative to using color to distinguish keys.

The game runs in [nw.js][] (so it can include both client and server),
but the final `game.exe` is a wrapper.
The wrapper currently built with [nexe][],
although this essentially means distributing two Node.js runtimes,
which is a considerable amount of overhead which could ultimately be avoided.
It downloads the [nw.js][] runtime (on first load)
and extracts a zip file from [a resource in the executable][nexeres] containing the main application.
Then it launches the game, passing in the path to the executable.
It does all this so it can read and write game state from the end of the `exe` file.
(At the moment this functionality is disabled.
I did a tech demo of this first, but there are no persistent elements to the world yet.)


## Open Doors to Other Worlds

* Local multiplayer

	* Discovers other clients through tiny JSON files stored with ports and PIDs.
	
	* **TODO**:
	Choose a new directory since I updated `nw` from `0.12.x`;
	the `single-instance` option is deprecated and you have to pass separate `--user-data-dir` values;
	and the directory is currently based on the user data directory.

	* **TODO:**
	  Manage input methods for multiple players.
	  You should be able to play with two people on one keyboard,
	  and you won't be able to send input to two windows at once.
		<!-- sending inputs to one window but two clients. -->

	* Could try to do single window splitscreen ("normal" local multiplayer) instead.


* Multiplayer over LAN

	* Discovers other clients with [SSDP][]

	* You can use [Hamachi](https://www.vpn.net/) to establish connections between computers if LAN doesn't work for you

	* **TODO/FIXME:**
	  Handle connection ending
	  (don't crash on `ECONNRESET`, boot you from the world with a nice animation)
	
	* **TODO:**
	  Get booted if server isn't responding
	
	* **FIXME:**
	  Disparity between `localhost` and the IP address used when reentering your own world


<!-- would indent this but currently it applies even to single player: -->

* **TODO:**
  Implement [client-side prediction][] smoothing

* **FIXME:**
  There is a [race condition][] when going back and forth between rooms
  where you can get viewing a room that you aren't in.
  Entering a door involves sending a command to the server
  but you switch the room you're viewing instantly.

* **TODO**:
  Remove the need for client-side prediction on the client's own server;
  maybe merge the client and the server so they use one `World`

* **TODO:**
  Use random seeds to render the exact same blades of grass etc. as another client for the same world.


## Install and run

Builds of the game will be easy to run, but there's not much of a point yet.
For now you'll need to install the project.

You'll need [Node.js][].
[Clone the project][cloning a repo]
and then, in a terminal/command prompt in the project's directory,
run:

	npm install ; cd game ; npm install ; cd ..

You can now run the game with:

	npm start

On the first run, it'll download the [nw.js][] runtime.


## Building

The game implements saving game data directly to the executable binary,
which is very platform specific.
This is only implemented for Windows so far.
It should be feasible on at least some other systems




[cloning a repo]: https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/
[Node.js]: https://nodejs.org
[nexe]: https://github.com/jaredallard/nexe
[nexeres]: https://github.com/jaredallard/nexe/pull/93
[nw.js]: https://github.com/nwjs/nw.js/
[client-side prediction]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Client-side_prediction
[SSDP]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_Service_Discovery_Protocol "Simple Service Discovery Protocol"
[race condition]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_condition
[Kirby & the Amazing Mirror]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kirby_%26_the_Amazing_Mirror

Commit message:

Update install and build instructions

README.md, after:


# ![](game/images/icon-32.png) Hacky Game

This is the start of a game involving some crazy technical jazz,
for the sake of magical minimalism.

The game will be a platformer,
with lots of interconnected rooms and various enemies,
taking some inspiration from [Kirby & the Amazing Mirror][].

(Some basics are implemented, like blocks, slopes, one-way platforms, and doors.
There are several rooms, but they're pretty boring,
and the art is very preliminary.)

The game supports LAN multiplayer,
and the client's world is simulated in between updates from the server,
a basic implementation of [client-side prediction][].

Single player is treated the same: the client hosts a server and communicates with it locally over TCP.
This might change.

When other servers are discovered,
a door is opened to another world.

Players can travel between worlds,
and you can even have two players in each other's worlds.
(But the player's client has to be online for their world to be available.)

You should be able to get a feel for the game in single-player,
with a substantial world to explore, but
I think multiplayer will be the real focus of the game
and I think it would be interesting to have parts of the world that you can only explore with a friend.

Oh, did I mention the worlds are gonna be procedurally generated?
That's probably kind of important.
It might have some areas that are the same in all worlds, like a tutorial level,
or perhaps just fairly similar and functionally identical.

Both players should gain from exploring either players world.
It should be like the worlds combined make up the space to explore,
and which one to do first shouldn't feel contentious.

There could be doors that require multiple keys, that you need to get from several people.
There could be keys that belong to random other worlds and you have to find the one player whose world contains the door.
There could be halves of items (including keys).

Keys could be 2D "pin arrays", where locks run a game-of-life simulation for a number of iterations.
This would work well for a 1BPP game, as alternative to using color to distinguish keys.

The game runs in [nw.js][] (so it can include both client and server),
but the final `game.exe` is a wrapper.
The wrapper currently built with [nexe][],
although this essentially means distributing two Node.js runtimes,
which is a considerable amount of overhead which could ultimately be avoided.
It downloads the [nw.js][] runtime (on first load)
and extracts a zip file from [a resource in the executable][nexeres] containing the main application.
Then it launches the game, passing in the path to the executable.
It does all this so it can read and write game state from the end of the `exe` file.
(At the moment this functionality is disabled.
I did a tech demo of this first, but there are no persistent elements to the world yet.)


## Open Doors to Other Worlds

* Local multiplayer

	* Discovers other clients through tiny JSON files stored with ports and PIDs.
	
	* **TODO**:
	Choose a new directory since I updated `nw` from `0.12.x`;
	the `single-instance` option is deprecated and you have to pass separate `--user-data-dir` values;
	and the directory is currently based on the user data directory.

	* **TODO:**
	  Manage input methods for multiple players.
	  You should be able to play with two people on one keyboard,
	  and you won't be able to send input to two windows at once.
		<!-- sending inputs to one window but two clients. -->

	* Could try to do single window splitscreen ("normal" local multiplayer) instead.


* Multiplayer over LAN

	* Discovers other clients with [SSDP][]

	* You can use [Hamachi](https://www.vpn.net/) to establish connections between computers if LAN doesn't work for you

	* **TODO/FIXME:**
	  Handle connection ending
	  (don't crash on `ECONNRESET`, boot you from the world with a nice animation)
	
	* **TODO:**
	  Get booted if server isn't responding
	
	* **FIXME:**
	  Disparity between `localhost` and the IP address used when reentering your own world


<!-- would indent this but currently it applies even to single player: -->

* **TODO:**
  Implement [client-side prediction][] smoothing

* **FIXME:**
  There is a [race condition][] when going back and forth between rooms
  where you can get viewing a room that you aren't in.
  Entering a door involves sending a command to the server
  but you switch the room you're viewing instantly.

* **TODO**:
  Remove the need for client-side prediction on the client's own server;
  maybe merge the client and the server so they use one `World`

* **TODO:**
  Use random seeds to render the exact same blades of grass etc. as another client for the same world.


## Install

Final builds of the game will be standalone executables,
but there's not much of a point yet to trying to release builds.

You'll need [Node.js][].
[Clone the project][cloning a repo]
and then, in a terminal/command prompt in the project's directory,
run:

	npm install ; cd game ; npm install ; cd ..

## Run

After installing, you can run the game with:

	npm start

On the first run, it'll download the [nw.js][] runtime.


## Build

The game implements hackily saving game data directly to the executable binary,
which is rather platform specific.
This is only implemented for Windows so far,
but it should be feasible on at least some other systems.

On Windows:

	npm run build

On other platforms, for now:

	npm run build-simple


[cloning a repo]: https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/
[Node.js]: https://nodejs.org
[nexe]: https://github.com/jaredallard/nexe
[nexeres]: https://github.com/jaredallard/nexe/pull/93
[nw.js]: https://github.com/nwjs/nw.js/
[client-side prediction]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Client-side_prediction
[SSDP]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_Service_Discovery_Protocol "Simple Service Discovery Protocol"
[race condition]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_condition
[Kirby & the Amazing Mirror]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kirby_%26_the_Amazing_Mirror
